# Cyclistic Case Study

## Data and Notebook
This case study focuses on the descriptive analysis of real-world data (approximately 20 million records) from Motivate International Inc., a bicycle ride-share company (referred to hereafter as "Cyclistic"). The data is publically available [here](https://divvy-tripdata.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html). The data includes tabular information about individual bicycle trips, including starting and ending station, duration, type of bicycle used (classic or electric), and -- crucially -- whether the trip was taken by a subscription or non-subscription ("casual") customer. It also includes tabular station data. Detailed descriptions of the data are included in the notebook ("cyclistic_case_study.Rmd"). The notebook itself must be viewed in RStudio, but rendered versions (PDF and HTML) are available in the "rendered_notebook" folder and can be viewed directly on GitHub.

## Project Goals
The goals of the analysis were two-fold:
1. To determine systematic temporal and/or geographical differences in use patterns between subscription and casual customers.
2. To identify casual customers that would be susceptible to conversion.

## Conclusions
The primary result of this study was the construction of robust statistical use profiles for subscription and casual customers. These use profiles were based on several key statistical observations concerning the time of day and week of subscription and casual trips, the geographical distributions of these trips, the duration of these trips, et cetera. These statistical findings are summarized in the notebook. (See the section Summary and Recommendations: A Summary of Key Observations). Together, these statistical observations informed robust customer-type profiles and key business recommendations, which I reproduce here:

### A Tale of Two Customers* Annual members tend to take short, direct, pragmatic trips, and many of them are daily commuters, though they tend to use their bikes on the weekends as well for unstructured day trips* There are two types of casual customers: 1) those who use Cyclistic bikes on summer weekends to travel to and between entertainment and tourist attractions -- likely primarily tourists, and 2) those who use Cyclistic bikes for their daily commutes, and perhaps weekend excursions as well.### RecommendationsBased on this analysis, my primary recommendation is to focus on converting that significant subpopulation of casual customers who use Cyclistic bikes for daily commutes into annual customers. This can likely be done by pointing out the associated savings (an annual membership is cheaper than paying for a day-pass for X days of the week) and convenience (no initial investment in a bicycle, no time or money associated with upkeep).I have two secondary recommendations: there is likely another subpopulation of local casual customers who use Cyclistic bikes for weekend excursions around downtown and waterfront entertainment areas. These customers may be converted to annual members by selling a *lifestyle* associated with the brand. I hypothesize that annual members value the fitness and "green-ness" associated with regular bicycling while also appreciating the convenience of not having to store or maintain a bicycle themselves. There is likely a significant subpopulation of local casual customers that may be sold on this lifestyle.The final secondary recommendation is to focus on the promotion of Cyclistic bicycles for summer tourism. Casual summer ridership has been dropping in absolute numbers (number of riders per month), but historically it seems this has been a prime use of casual passes. In addition to increased promotion, a possibility might be the creation of a special week or month pass designed specifically for tourists.

## Other Considerations
I conducted the analysis using approximately 20 million records. It involved significant data cleaning and organization, which is thoroughly detailed in the notebook.

The entirety of the analysis was conducted in R. I chose R because it was a new language to me at the time; through this project, I gained substantial experience and comfort using R and RStudio.

This analysis was completed as part of the Google Data Analytics Professional Certification, but all aspects of the analysis and code are entirely my own.
